we're going to have to uh cut you off
there because Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu is speaking now let's
listen
in
I have spoke with a lot of families who
lost their members or have members who
are
missing will never
forget what have been done all those
terrorist acts and we will not
[Music]
forgive and will not anyone forget this
tragedy
[Music]
we are listening to the prime minister
of Israel who is delivering a speech in
Tel Aviv and that is talking about what
Israel is currently
doing we
support our country and we will
eliminate Hamas and we will make Victory
it will take time but we will finish and
end this war stronger than
ever God will Revenge from all our
enemies those who attacked
[Music]
us
thank okay that was uh Benjamin
Netanyahu the Israeli Prime Minister
speaking very briefly there we're going
to go back to uh Maan Bashar Al jazer
senior political analyst and from what
we could hear from Netanyahu there he uh
he didn't say anything uh that we hadn't
heard before Maan certainly nothing
about uh this evacuation order for
Northern
Gaza no absolutely not in fact I I
caught up his words in Hebrew before the
the translator came on and uh he's
basically trying to emphasize that
Israel is United and it will never
forget what happened to it the last
weekend were his opening words in Hebrew
and I think he's trying to uh Channel um
the sort of you know Voice of Unity and
steadfastness of the Israeli uh public
and the Israeli military as it embarks
on what seems to be you know some very
tough long War painful War as the way he
put it uh in in early times and I think
it's clear that uh he's presenting
himself as a wartime leader now and it's
also of course he's having this
unconditional backing from the West so I
think and I can imagine as the Sabbath
uh takes hold in Israel uh I think
there's going to be a lot of reflection
about the day after the Sabbath and how
the Israelis are then are going to be
tackling the uh the war in Gaza which as
everyone seems to understand is going
going to lead to tens of thousands
perhaps hundreds of thousands of
casualties yeah just on the evacuation
order that Israel gave almost 24 hours
ago if you ask a million people to move
and they don't what happens after
that well that's the thing I think he I
think defense minister Galant was asked
that during the press conference in fact
at the end of press conference and uh I
think he seemed to uh uh he seems to U
avoid the the question he kind of just
shaked his head and I think we've heard
from the white house uh that uh this is
going to be impossible that you cannot
just give people 24 hours and expect a
million people to just take off uh under
some sort of an order of a of an enemy
country right um so I think it's clear
now to everyone including those in the
United States and at the United Nations
that this is not doable and hence when
he was asked whether uh he's going to
have to postpone it or whether there's
another deadline again he tried to uh
avoid an answer because I think Israel
does not have an answer now to the
ultimatum that they've given about 24
hours uh this is certainly not workable
and clearly there's complications to its
implementation even if it's giving 72
hours and more because the people in
Gaza including Hamas of course you know
have a different opinion about this it's
not just because Israel have an order
that means that Palestinians who are you
know enemy of Israel are just going to
now follow through on it of course a lot
of families uh with a lot of children uh
will probably try to look for safety and
that's natural uh you would expect them
to especially now that they will be you
know looking for uh some sort of a
shelter uh in the southern part of uh
Gaza but I think many as it seems we've
seen from some of the demonstrations now
in Gaza that many decided just to stay
put uh that will probably complicate
everything furthermore but I think it's
normal also for people who have
faced a trauma in their past about uh
you know refuge and displacement and and
redisplacement that they feel that as if
their Destiny now is is in their hands
and in their very near future and I
think they don't feel anywhere in Gaza
is safe and as we've heard also from the
various uh of your guests as well that a
lot of people just cannot uh take off
and leave yeah a lot of people are sick
and elderly children you know and who
don't have even means of transportations
and what do you do with a family of
seven once you just you know take off
and go somewhere South where are you
going to sleep how are they going to eat
how are they going to survive yeah I I
just want to go back to um the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinken's uh
little
tour I mean he was in Doha today he's
also heading to Saudi Arabia uh among
other countries I mean is this a box
ticking exercise uh from the US do you
think in some ways it is because clearly
I think this is a very important
question in some ways it is uh they want
to show that America you know has the
ears of all the sides and maybe even the
some sort of a consent of sort even if
it's
implicit uh and and certainly they're
going to need all the help they can get
uh from their Arab part as it were uh
when things get uh you know uh much
worse in Gaza so I think opening
Channels with Arab capitals is necessary
but I think it's also more important
that they're trying to get as many
people as possible as many leaders as
possible on their side but as we said
before the statement from the Arab
League is already clear while the Arab
League is not taking you know a a tough
position they're not condemning Israel
in fact the Arab League statement uh
basically equated between Hamas and
Israel which is was unheard of before
this weekend in the sense that the Arab
League has always taken the position
that whatever the Palestinians do do
Under the uh you know under the headline
of uh of resisting occupation and that
there is no uh equivalency between the
occupi and the occupied but this time
around the Arab League statement seems
to equate between the two so already the
Arab leaders are uh kind of you know
giving in although four countries in
particularly Libya uh sorry Algeria Iraq
Syria and another country now I can't
remember anyway they definitely
registered their uh objections to the
tone of the statement so all in all the
Arab capitals are trying now to to
convince the United States to uh you
know hold back Israel from causing a
major Tragedy by a land invasion of Gaza
okay thanks so much Marin we really do
as always appreciate you breaking it all
down for us that is uh Mar bashara our
senior political analyst